What is Data Structure?

- A data structure is a way of organizing ans storing the data in a computer so that it can be
accessed and used efficiently.

- It refers to the logical and mathematical representation of data, as well as the implementation
in a computer program.

#Classification:

Data Structure can be classified into two broad categories:
1. Linear Data Structure.
2. Non-Linear Data Structure.

1. Linear Data Structure:

- A data Structure in which data elements are arranged sequentially or linealy, where each 
element is attached to it's previous and next adjacent elements, is called a linear data 
structures. 

- Examples are Array, stack, queue, etc.

2. Non-Linear Data Structure:

- Data Structure where data elements are not placed sequentially or linearly are called 
non-linear data structure.

- Examples are tree and graphs.

IMG:(Hirarchy of Data Structure.jpg)

#APPLICATIONS OF DATA STRUCTURE :

Data Structure are used in a wide range of computer programs and applications, including:
1. Database
2. Operating System
3. Computer Graphics
4. Artificial Intelligence

#ADVANTAGES OF DATA STRUCTURES:

The use of data structures provides several advantages, including:

1] Efficiency:

Data Structures allow for efficient storage and retrival of data, which is most important in
applications where performance is critical.

2] Flexiability:

Data Structures provides a flexible way to organize and store data, allowing for easy modification
and manipulation.

3] Reusability: 

Data strucutures can be used in multiple programs and applications, reducing the needs for 
redundant code.

4] Maintainability:

Well designed data strucutures can make programs easier to understand, modify, and maintain over
time.

5] Data Organization:

They organize data in a logical manner, making it easier to understand and access.

6] Data Abstraction:

They hide implementation details of data storage, allowing programmers to focus on the logical
aspects of data manipulation.

7] Algorithm Optimization:

The choice of the appropriate data structure can significantly impact the efficiency of algorithms
that operate on the data.
